[ADD] data cleaning: overview (#9866)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/data_cleaning.rst

=============
Data Cleaning
=============

The Odoo *Data Cleaning* app keeps the database neat and organized by enabling the following
features:

- **Deduplicates**: merges or removes duplicate entries to ensure data is unique.
- **Recycles**: identifies outdated records to either archive or delete them.
- **Merges**: combines multiple similar entries into one streamlined record.

> - **Formats**: standardizes text data by finding and replacing it according to specified needs.

Author: Yeah I prefer using bold formatting here when introducing and defining these features only because they are in a list & colon. Having these features in italics makes it difficult to read when in a layout such as this IMO.

Thanks for you– definitely considered!

These features maintain an up-to-date database with consistently formatted text data, tailored to
company specifications.

.. _data_cleaning/install-modules:

Install modules
===============

The *Data Cleaning* application consists of several modules. :ref:`Install <general/install>` the
following to access all available features:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 25 25 50

   * - Name
     - Technical name
     - Description
   * - :guilabel:`Data Recycle`
     - `data_recycle`
     - Base module to enable the recycle feature and is available on Odoo Community edition.
   * - :guilabel:`Data Cleaning`
     - `data_cleaning`
     - Enables field cleaning feature to format text data across multiple records, available only on
       Odoo Enterprise edition.

>    * - :guilabel:`Data Merge`

Author: Oops! Nice catch– yes the module is actually titled: "**Data Cleaning (merge)**"

   hidden from the list and archived.

   View discarded groupings by selecting the :guilabel:`Discarded` filter from the :ref:`Search...
   <search/filters>` bar.

Once a record is merged, a message is logged in the chatter of the master record describing the
merge. Certain records, like *Project* tasks, are logged in the chatter with a link to the old
record for a convenient reference.

.. _data_cleaning/deduplication-rules:

Deduplication rules
-------------------

The *Deduplication rules* (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning --> Configuration --> Rules:
Deduplication`) set the conditions for records to be detected as duplicates.

These rules can be configured for each model in the database, and with varying levels of
specificity.

The deduplication rules run every hour by default as part of a scheduled action chron (*Data Merge:
Find Duplicate Records*), however, each rule can be  :ref:`ran manually
<data-cleaning/run-deduplication-rule>` anytime.

Modify a deduplication rule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Select a default rule to edit, or create a new rule by clicking on the :guilabel:`New` button.

> 

Author: Yes– except the entered title is replaced once a **Model** is selected... so I decided to just explain selecting a Model as the first step, since this will add a default title that the user can _then_ replace/update :)

of eligible records is shown to the right of the :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`# record(s)`.

Choose whether to :guilabel:`Archive` or :guilabel:`Delete` the merged records in the
:guilabel:`Duplicate Removal` field.

Next, select a :guilabel:`Merge Mode`:

- :guilabel:`Manual`: requires each duplicate grouping to be manually merged, also enables the
  :guilabel:`Notify Users` field.
- :guilabel:`Automatic`: automatically merges duplicate groupings, without notifying users, based on
  the records with a similarity percentage above the threshold set in the :guilabel:`Similarity
  Threshold` field.

Enable the :guilabel:`Active` toggle to start capturing duplicates with this rule as soon as it is
saved.

Lastly, create at least one :guilabel:`Deduplication Rules` by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`.

- Select a field in the model from the :guilabel:`Unique ID Field` drop-down menu. This field will
  be referenced for similar records.
- Select a matching condition in the :guilabel:`Match If` field to apply the duplication rule
  depending on the text in the :guilabel:`Unique ID Field`:

  - :guilabel:`Exact Match`: the characters in the text match exactly.

>   - :guilabel:`Case/Accent Insensitive Match`: the characters in the text match regardless of casing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Case/Accent Insensitive Match`: the characters in the text match, regardless of casing
```

    and language-specific accent differences.

.. note::

>    The rule will not capture duplicates without at least one :guilabel:`Deduplication Rules` set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The rule does **not** capture duplicates without at least one deduplication rule set in the :guilabel:`Deduplication Rules` field.
```

> With the rule's configuration complete, either close the rule form or :ref:`run the rule manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the rule's configuration complete, either close the rule form, or :ref:`run the rule manually
```

<data-cleaning/run-deduplication-rule>` to instantly capture duplicate records.

.. _data-cleaning/run-deduplication-rule:

Manually run a deduplication rule
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To manually run a specific deduplication rule at any time, navigate to :menuselection:`Data Cleaning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manually run a specific deduplication rule at any time, navigate to :menuselection:`Data Cleaning app
```

> --> Configuration --> Rules: Deduplication` and select the rule to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--> Configuration --> Rules: Deduplication`, and select the rule to run.
```

Then, on the rule form, select the :guilabel:`Deduplicate` button on the top-left. Upon doing so,
the :icon:`fa-clone` :guilabel:`Duplicates` smart button displays the number of duplicates captured.

Click on the :icon:`fa-clone` :guilabel:`Duplicates` smart button to manage these records.

Recycle records
===============

> In the *Recycle Records* dashboard (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning --> Recycle Records`), Odoo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Field Recycle Records` dashboard (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning app --> Recycle Records`), Odoo
```

> detects records that can be archived or deleted by matching conditions within the records set by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
detects records that can be archived or deleted, by matching conditions within the records set by the
```

> recycle records rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
recycle record's rules.
```
please disregard if not accurate

Field cleaning
==============

> In the *Field Cleaning* dashboard (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning --> Field Cleaning`), Odoo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Field Cleaning Records* dashboard (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning app --> Field Cleaning`), Odoo
```

suggests formatting changes to data in fields of a record, to follow a convention set by the field
cleaning rules.

.. _data_cleaning/merge-action-manager:

Merge action manager
====================

> The *Merge Action Manager* (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning --> Configuration --> Merge Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Merge Action Manager` (:menuselection:`Data Cleaning app --> Configuration --> Merge Action
```
I wasn't able to locate this during my revisions. Might be worth double-checking to ensure the accuracy of this portion.

![Screenshot 2024-06-21 090356](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/73958186/006bc348-b96d-4495-91d7-b3f6146127ba)

=============
Data Cleaning
=============

The Odoo *Data Cleaning* app keeps the database neat and organized by enabling the following
features:

- **Deduplicates**: merges or removes duplicate entries to ensure data is unique.
- **Recycles**: identifies outdated records to either archive or delete them.
- **Merges**: combines multiple similar entries into one streamlined record.

> - **Formats**: standardizes text data by finding and replacing it according to specified needs.

Reviewer 2: Consider turning the labels into internal anchors to respective sections on the page.
